# Journal
## The Inventory App was designed to allow the used to manage their inventory and has functionalities such as account creation, viewing inventory, adding or deleting inventory, and setting up SMS alert notifications. It addresses the needs of users such as warehouse managers, business owners, warehouse employees, and more. Upon opening the app, the user is greeted with the login screen, which allows the user to either log in or create an account. After logging in or creating an account, a data display screen appears which displays a grid of the inventory data and contains buttons to add, update and delete data. The screen allows the user to input their selection through text. The data display screen includes a notifications button. When the button is clicked, the SMS notification screen appears, which will ask the user for permission to allow the app to send the user text notifications when inventory is low. The UI is very simple and straightforward, with makes it easy for the user to navigate. I approached the coding process of the app by practicing modularity and utilizing OOP principles to code the different features of the app. I created reusable components such as InventoryAppAdapter and DatabaseHelper to ensure the code is maintainable and scalable. A challenge I faced during this project was when I was trying to get the RecyclerView to dynamically update based on data changes. To overcome this, I used the notifyDataSetChanged() method to reload the views to reflect recent changes of the database. While it was challenging, I believe this component of the app is successful demonstrating my ability in database integration and dynamic user interface updates with RecyclerView as well as managing user inputs.
